Restructure Api Gateway Documentation (#13675)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig.mdx

    * [`method`](#consul-authentication-method): string | optional
    * [`namespace`](#consul-authentication-namespace): string  | optional
  * [`ports`](#consul-ports): object  | optional
    * [`grpc`](#consul-ports-grpc): integer | optional
    * [`http`](#consul-ports-http): integer | optional
  * [`scheme`](#consul-scheme): string  | optional
* [`copyAnnotations`](#copyAnnotations): object | optional
  * [`service`](#copyAnnotations-service): array of strings | optional
* [`deployment`](#deployment): object | optional
  * [`defaultInstances`](#deployment-defaultinstances): integer | optional
  * [`maxInstances`](#deployment-maxinstances): integer | optional
  * [`minInstances`](#deployment-mininstances): integer | optional
* [`image`](#image): object | optional
  * [`consulAPIGateway`](#image-consulapigateway): string | optional
  * [`envoy`](#image-envoy): string | optional
* [`logLevel`](#loglevel): string | optional
* [`nodeSelector`](#nodeselector): string | optional
* [`serviceType`](#servicetype): string | optional
* [`useHostPorts`](#usehostports): boolean | optional

## Specification

This topic provides details about the configuration parameters.

> ### consul

Author: That's mostly there, but I'd refine it to something like "Specifies configurations that enable Consul API Gateway to interact with Consul" Since Kubernetes Pods is a bit vague.

I'd say it's optional, at least for now. I've never specified any of these values in my tests as the default behavior works out of the box with the helm deployment.

> ### consul

Author: ```suggestion
### consul
Specifies configurations that enable an instance of Consul API Gateway to interact with Consul
```

* Type: object
* Required: optional

### consul.address
Specifies the address of the Consul server that the `Gateway` communicates with in the gateway pod. If unspecified, the pod attempts to use a local agent on the host where the pod is running.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: local agent

### consul.authentication.account
Specifies the Kubernetes service account to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.managed

> Set to `true` to enable deployments to run with managed service accounts created by the gateway controller. The `consul.authentication.account` field is ignored when this option is enabled.

Author: Hi, I'm not actually familiar with how this piece works and just copy pasted what we already had. Maybe @andrewstucki, @mikemorris or @nathancoleman will be able to chime in here, but I will try and find the answer for you in the meantime.

> Set to `true` to enable deployments to run with managed service accounts created by the gateway controller. The `consul.authentication.account` field is ignored when this option is enabled.

Reviewer: I don't think this would be at all obvious to a user, and I'm also unsure if it's ever intended to be configured directly - I can't find any reference to _using_ this in the codebase, it appears to be related to [Helm chart configuration](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/blob/main/charts/consul/templates/api-gateway-gatewayclassconfig.yaml#L14-L18) and may just be some way to persist that config?

* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`

### consul.authentication.method

> Specifies the Consul auth method used for initial authentication by Consul API Gateway.

Author: The direction is coming from Consul API Gateway, authenticating into Consul

* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.namespace
Specifies the Consul namespace to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.ports.grpc
Specifies the gRPC port for Consul's xDS server.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8502`

### consul.ports.http
Specifies the Consul HTTP port to use for authentication.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8500`

### consul.scheme

> Specifies the scheme to use for connecting to Consul. The supported values are `"http"` and `"https"`.

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the scheme to use for connecting to Consul.
```

Deleting it from the description would be consistent with the way the rest of the restructure is formated, but let me know your preference.

* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `http`

You can specify the following strings:
* `http`

> * `https`

Author: Suggesting this instead, but let me know your thoughts. https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/13675/files#r932734238

### copyAnnotations.service

> List of kubernetes [annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) to copy to the gateway service.

Author: Looking through the code, I'm fairly certain we're actually talking about Kubernetes Service, big S, as this value is being used to build out our Kubernetes Service annotations and our Kubernetes Deployment annotations. So the gateway service it's the Kubernetes Service that's getting Kubernetes Annotations copied into it. Does that make sense? Can we make it clearer?

* Type: Array of Strings
* Required: optional

### deployment.defaultInstances
Specifies the number of gateway instances to deploy per gateway configuration
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: 1

### deployment.maxInstances
Specifies the maximum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: 8

### deployment.minInstances
Specifies the minimum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: 1

### image.consulAPIGateway

> The image to use for consul-api-gateway. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).
> 
> Most deployments will use the default value unless a specific version of the Consul API Gateway is desired.
> * Type: string
> * Required: optional
> * Default: `"hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:RELEASE_VERSION"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the Docker image to use for the `consul-api-gateway` container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of the Consul API Gateway depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:RELEASE_VERSION"`
```
Am I correctly characterizing what `consul-api-gateway` means in this context?

### image.envoy

> The image to use for consul-api-gateway. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).
> 
> Most deployments will use the default value unless a specific version of Envoy is desired.
> * Type: string
> * Required: optional
> * Default: `"envoyproxy/envoy:RELEASE_VERSION"`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the Docker image to use for the Envoy proxy container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of Envoy depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"envoyproxy/envoy:RELEASE_VERSION"`
```
Correct?

### logLevel
Specifies the error reporting level for logs.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `info`

You can specify the following strings:
* `error`
* `warning`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`

### nodeSelector

> Specifies a set of parameters that constrain the nodes on which the pod can run. Defining nodes with the `nodeSelector` enables the pod to fit on a node. The selector must match a node's labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. Refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/) for additional information.* Type: string

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pods normally run on multiple nodes. You can specify a set of parameters in the `nodeSelector` that constrain the nodes on which the pod can run, enabling the pod to fit on a node. The selector must match a node's labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. Refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/) for additional information.

* Type: string
```
Is that clearer?

* Required: optional

### serviceType
Specifies the ingress methods for a service.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

> You can specify the following strings:
> * `ClusterIP`: Gateway will only be accessible from inside the cluster
> * `NodePort`: Gateway will be exposed on each Kubernetes node at a static port
> * `LoadBalancer`: Gateway will be exposed to external traffic by a load balancer
> 
> For more on Kubernetes services, see [Publishing Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify the following strings:
* `ClusterIP`: The gateway is only accessible from inside the cluster.
* `NodePort`: The gateway is exposed on each Kubernetes node at a static port.
* `LoadBalancer`: The gateway is exposed to external traffic by a load balancer.

For more on Kubernetes services, see [Publishing Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).
```
Per the style guide, we should use simple present tense.

### useHostPorts
If set to `true`, then the Envoy container ports are mapped to host ports.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`

## Full Configuration

> The following example creates a gateway class configuration called `test-gateway-class-config`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a gateway class configuration called `test-gateway-class-config`. Traffic that passes through gateways created from the class configuration authenticate with Consul over HTTPS on port `8501`. Consul client agents communicate with server agents on port `8502` :
```
Am I describing what the example does correctly? Are there any other configurations we could add that would be useful for readers? The examples are opportunities to show-and-tell a scenario.

Specifies the minimum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `1`

### image.consulAPIGateway
Specifies the Docker image to use for the `consul-api-gateway` container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of the Consul API Gateway depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### image.envoy
Specifies the Docker image to use for the Envoy proxy container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of Envoy depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"envoyproxy/envoy:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### logLevel
Specifies the error reporting level for logs.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `info`

You can specify the following strings:
* `error`
* `warning`
* `info`
* `debug`

> * `trace`

Author: Not opposed to it being in sentence form, but every other entry with a set list of options is in this format.

### nodeSelector
Pods normally run on multiple nodes. You can specify a set of parameters in the `nodeSelector` that constrain the nodes on which the pod can run, enabling the pod to fit on a node. The selector must match a node's labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. Refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/) for additional information.

* Type: string
* Required: optional

### serviceType

> Specifies the ingress methods for a service.

Author: ```suggestion
Specifies the ingress methods for the gateway's Kubernetes service.
```

* Type: string
* Required: optional

You can specify the following strings:
* `ClusterIP`: The gateway is only accessible from inside the cluster.
* `NodePort`: The gateway is exposed on each Kubernetes node at a static port.
* `LoadBalancer`: The gateway is exposed to external traffic by a load balancer.

For more on Kubernetes services, see [Publishing Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).

### useHostPorts
If set to `true`, then the Envoy container ports are mapped to host ports.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`

> ## Full Configuration

Author: ```suggestion
## Example Configuration
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
description:  >-
  Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
---

> 

Author: 8fe5c14d80b2e7326e79cad25d96ab6387c354f6 pages now follow cm/s format

      ports:
        http: 8501
        grpc: 8502
```
</CodeBlockConfig>

The following table describes the allowed parameters for the `spec` array:

| Parameter  | Description | Type | Default |
| ---        | ---         | ---- | ------- |
| `consul.address`                  | Specifies the address of the Consul server to communicate with in the gateway pod. If unspecified, the pod will attempt to use a local agent on the host on which the pod is running.                                                                                                                                                                                               | String  | N/A                                              |
| `consul.authentication.account`   | Specifies the Kubernetes service account to use for authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | String  | N/A                                              |

> | `consul.authentication.managed`   | Set to `true` to enable deployments to run with managed service accounts created by the gateway controller. The `consul.authentication.account` field is ignored when this option is enabled.                                                                                                                                                                                       | Boolean | `false`                                          |

Author: It's part of an operator pattern people who are used to kubernetes and installing crds would have likely run into before, but it might not be a bad idea to add a section explaining what it is.

| `consul.ports.http`               | Specifies the port for Consul's HTTP server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Integer | `8500`                                           |
| `consul.scheme`                   | Specifies the scheme to use for connecting to Consul. The supported values are `"http"` and `"https"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | String  | `"http"`                                         |

> | `copyAnnotations.service`         | List of annotations to copy to the gateway service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Array   | `["external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname"]`  |

Author: Annotations are part of kubernetes metadata https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/. I would assume most people would be familiar, but perhaps we could link to the k8s documentation?

| `deployment.defaultInstances`     | Specifies the number of instances to deploy by default for each gateway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Integer  | 1                                               |
| `deployment.maxInstances`         | Specifies the maximum allowed number of instances per gateway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Integer  | 8                                               |

> | `deployment.minInstances`         | Specifies the minimum allowed number of instances per gateway.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Integer  | 1                                               |

Author: Number of gateway created by the deployment. Consul instances are controlled in the helm chart on install. Is there a way to word it better?

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
description:  >-
  Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
---

# GatewayClassConfig

The `GatewayClassConfig` object describes Consul API Gateway-related configuration parameters for the [`GatewayClass`](#gatewayclass).

Add the `kind: GatewayClassConfig` option to the gateway values file to declare a gateway class.
The following example creates a gateway class configuration called `test-gateway-class-config`:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="gateway.yaml">

>   ```yaml
>   apiVersion: api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
>   kind: GatewayClassConfig
>   metadata:
>   name: test-gateway-class-config
>   spec:
>   useHostPorts: true
>   logLevel: 'trace'
>   consul:
>   scheme: 'https'
>   ports:
>   http: 8501
>   grpc: 8502
>   ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
  apiVersion: api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
  kind: GatewayClassConfig
  metadata:
    name: test-gateway-class-config
  spec:
    useHostPorts: true
    logLevel: 'trace'
    consul:
      scheme: 'https'
      ports:
        http: 8501
        grpc: 8502
  ```
```
